---
layout: post
title: Data Abstraction and Return to Data Tables
date: 2018-11-16
---

Between the last 2 weeks of class we spoke about data abstractions and returned to learning about data sets. To do so we looked at two data simulations. First, our teacher shared with us a program containing a simulation of a drone dropping a box and we had to figure out how to get the box to land going in a diagonal line. At first this seemed really confusing to me and honestly still is pretty confusing to think about but I will try to the best of my ability to try to make sense of it in this reflection. We talked about using mames of data in order to oragnize it to do something for us and as an example we used a function that used constructor data called "DeliveryState" which takes in two numbers and and used them as coordinates in a way. Using this data we can create a fuction called delivery and the contract will look something like this:
<br/>
delivery::(x::Number,::y::Number)->Delivery state
<br/>

This function will produce a fuction that will produce the delivery state of the function which is a type of data. As you can see the function takes in two values one of which we see is represents the coordinates of where the delivey state leave the package. It takes in both the Y values and X values of delivery and this will solve the presented problem of the simulation. As I said before, the explanation was a little confusing so I'm not sure if I'm presenting my information correctly however I do have some understanding when I look in my notes taliking about data stuctures and abstractions. We also used a bakery program to that used a data called CakeType that showed us different fields of data as columns in a table. We were also introduced to data lookups that will show us data inside the row of data. These two simulations were simular in a way because they both used data abstractions in order to organize data and present it to us.

We also returned to talking about data tables by revisting the data tables that displayed a table of animals and certain information about each animal. The data was displayed in Pyret with a displayed table that gave us this information. We learned about 3 different ways to use data one being Lookup data, which is contained directly in the data, Analysis data that is based on predictions about the data, and computed data that is found by computing numbers found within the data. We practiced using lookup data again much like last week which connected the ideas of Data Abstraction and how they are used when talking about data tables. We were able to use what we learned about data lookups master looking up specific data in the animal tables that were difficult to process by just looking at the data. Using data lookups we were able to directly lookup pieces of data inside the table easily. With more practice with these fields, I tried asking questions about the information in the table and identify what type of data my question presents and how it will be used and whether it identifies as Analytical, Lookup, or computing.

The past two weeks included a lot of learning and processing new information that I have not learned before and it makes me wonder if we will every apply what we are learning to create certian projects much like in the beginning of the semester where we created the Flag project any time soon. That will make the class a little more interesting however it is understandable that we can't start creating anything when we don't have the knowledge to do so. Maybe in the near future this will happen!
