---
layout: post
title : Breaking Down Problems
---
Here's another week of Computer Science. A quick summary of what happened during the week is we started to talk about where to start when creating a program in order to teach us to make smaller problems out of bigger problems. This would be an important skill to learn not only for computer science, but also in life because it should be a habbit to take a major problem, and divide it into a smaller problems so you can go step by step and eventually solve what ever problem you were solving in the first place. This is relevant to coding because if you think about it, if you want to create a program there are many problems you will face such as errors in the code, the lack of knowledge on how to do something, and even how interested you are overall at the subject at hand. 

We started looking into one of our next projects this week which has the class go look for a flag using a website called fotw.info and find a flag. Next we would have to use a programing language called Pyret to produce a program that will create an image of the selected flag using a programming language that is new to me called Pyret. The flag that I chose was the flag of Puerto Rico because I am a mix of Puerto Rican, Mexican, and Equadorian. Even though I do value my other Ethicities since I have never actually used pyret the puerto rican flag seemed like the simpiler option for a beginner like me. Using pyret for the first time was difficult/interesting to interact with since I have used a number of languages and seeing how Pyret works was something new and even a bit exciting. 

One problem that came to mind was that this was a brand new language to me and I didn't know how to use it very well so when I tried coding with it, I kept getting error messages. Something I am still trying to figure out is how to overlay images meaning to take two images and layer them on top of eachother. Steps I am taking to solve this problem is to use a strategy that the teacher taught us in class to use the Pyret directory and look at the libraries and see the contract for creating an overlay. I am still trying to figure out what to do with this information but I know it will get easier after I figure out how to use the information properly. 
